Name
Student Last Name
Report Date
1/11/17
Birth Date

SpEd SELPA

Chronological Age
12y 2m
School 

Ethnicity

Psychologist

Primary Language
English
Testing Date(s)
11/23/16 & 1/4/16
Preferred Language
English
G.E. Teacher

Grade
7th
SpEd Teacher


Confidentiality: The following assessment report may contain sensitive information subject to interpretation by trained individuals. Nonconsensual redisclosure by unauthorized individuals is prohibited by both the State State Education Code and the Welfare and Institution Code. 

Reason for Referral:				
The purpose of this assessment is to determine the student’s areas of strengths, weaknesses, and needs, to provide information useful in further educational planning to include supportive educational strategies, and to assist the IEP team in determining the student's eligibility to receive special educational services. This assessment will also include an evaluation/screening for Educationally Related Mental Health Services (ERMHS). This information will also be used to determine if the student is best served in general or special education or a combination of programs as the most-appropriate, least-restrictive setting to meet the student’s needs. 

Initial Referral
On 10/12/16, Student’s parents referred him for an initial assessment. SCHOOL received written consent to the Proposed Assessment Plan on 11/8/16.

The purpose of this initial assessment is to determine whether Student is eligible for special education and related services.  The assessment results shall be shared with the individualized education program (IEP) team to determine whether Student demonstrates one or more impairments and, if so, whether the degree of the impairment(s) requires special education and/or related services.  

If the IEP team determines that Student’s impairment(s) requires special education and/or related services, the assessment results will be used to discuss Student’s unique needs and develop an appropriate IEP based on his needs.  If the IEP team determines that Student does not require special education or related services, the assessment results will be shared with the IEP team to discuss how Student can be educated in the general education program with or without modifications.
         
Based on the relevant information which has been made available to the charter school to date, it is suspected that Student has one or more impairments in the areas of: health, limited strength, vitality or alertness, auditory processing, visual processing, visual-motor integration, listening comprehension, oral expression, basic reading skills, reading comprehension, mathematics calculation, mathematics reasoning, spelling, written expression, memory, oral-motor, speech, receptive language, expressive language, including morphology, syntax, semantics or pragmatics, cognitive abilities, including association, conceptualization and expression, fine motor, sensory processing, sensory-motor processing, motor planning, behavioral organization, attention, behavior, social-emotional functioning, autism and its related behaviors, self-help/adaptive behaviors. 

This assessment examines suspected impairments in the areas of: Other Health Impairment— due to ADHD, Autism, and/or Emotional Disturbance, in addition Specific Learning Disability will be considered.  Further data will be obtained from concurrent assessment(s) conducted by the Occupational Therapist, Speech and Language Pathologist, RSP Teacher, and General Education Teacher. 

Prior to this assessment, Student has been diagnosed with the following: Autism and ADHD.  This assessment will examine Autism and it’s related behaviors, attention, social-emotional functioning to obtain current educationally relevant data.   

Evaluation Procedures:
In accordance with State and Federal guidelines, no single test or score will determine a student's eligibility.  Test results are examined in conjunction with all available sources of information by the IEP team, including teachers, parents, specialists and others.  Assessments utilize formal and informal tools, observation, interviews, and file reviews.  Assessment procedures are selected so as not to discriminate on the basis of gender, culture, language, ethnicity or disability.

The following procedures were components of this evaluation:

Parent/Learning Coach Input: 
Developmental History
Vineland-II, Adaptive Behavior Scales- Parent Rating Survey
Interview
Conners 3 Parent Rating Survey
Asperger Syndrome Diagnostic Scale (ASDS)
Childhood Autism Rating Scales 2nd Parent-Questionnaire (CARS-PQ)
Student Input:
Interview
Conner’s Self-Report
Revised Children's Manifest Anxiety Scale (RCMAS-2) Self Rating Scale
Kovacs’ Children’s Depression Inventory 2nd edition (CDI-2) Self Rating Scale
Educational Team Input:
Cumulative Records Review
Observation of the Student
The Woodcock-Johnson Tests of Achievement – IV (WJ-IV Ach)
Das- Naglieri Cognitive Assessment System 2nd edition (CAS2)
Test of Auditory Perceptual Skills— Third Edition (TAPS-3)
The Motor-Free Visual Perceptual Test, Fourth Edition (MVPT-4)
The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration (VMI-6)
The Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS-2HF) 
Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule— Second Edition (ADOS-2)—Administered by: Psych 2

Background Information:

Health, Medical and Developmental History:
Student’s mother, Mrs. Lisa Last Name indicated that the pregnancy, labor and delivery were unremarkable. Student was born at almost 38 weeks gestation and was 6lbs 9oz; he was discharged from the hospital at the same time as his mother. Mrs. Last Name indicated that most developmental milestones were met within normal limits, including walking, and potty training. Mrs. Last Name indicated that speech was mildly delayed and that she taught Student sign language they used to communicate, until he was able to use verbal language adequately for communication. 

Currently Student appears to be of average height and weight for his age and appears to be receiving at least adequate health and dental care. Parent also reports that Student is in good overall physical health, he began taking Methylphenidate ER for his diagnosis of ADHD on 9/26/16 and is still continuing to take it daily at this time. Per parent interview with this School Psychologist on 12/5/16 Mrs. Last Name believes the medication along with environmental and dietary changes are helping to stabilize Student’s behavioral concerns at this time. 

Student is currently under the care of a clinical psychologist/neuropsychologist named, PhD. Per parent input survey Dr. is currently working with Student on social skills, life coping skills, and peer interaction. 

Per parent report Student was hospitalized at the Aurora Behavioral Center on 2/19/16 and then released on 2/23/16 for threating to hurt himself and his parents. 

Vision					
	  Within normal limits
	  Wears Glasses
              Date Tested: 9/30/16
Hearing
	  Within normal limits
	  Wears Hearing Aids
	Date Tested: Unknown

Family Dynamics:
Student lives with his mother Lisa and father Brian in a single-family dwelling in Ramona, State. Reports indicate that Student has an older half brother that does not currently live with the family. 

Parent Concerns/Input: 
Student Study Team (SST) meeting notes dated: 10/12/16 indicated the following:
“Review of parent input and Health and Developmental forms indicate: Parent letter of request indicates Student was evaluated and diagnosed with Asperger’s in 1/2016. Parent input form indicates no other children in the home. No notable developmental delays indicated. Parent indicates student does not have friends. Student has age appropriate hobbies/interests. Student struggles to make/keep same-age friends, but is very social with adults. Student is currently receiving medical care for ASD-ADHD and taking medication of Methylphenidate. Student was hospitalized in 2/2016 for depression and anxiety. He experienced a meltdown and was hospitalized 4 nights. Parent indicates they have seen little improvement. Demonstrated symptoms include meltdown, crying, screaming, and depression. No additional areas of concern were indicated by parent prior to scheduled meeting.”

Mrs. Last Name shared the following information with the School Psychologist via interviews conducted on 11/14/16 (phone), 11/23/16 (in person), 12/5/16 (phone): 
Between semesters of Student’s 5th grade year, the family moved from the city of City to the more rural city of. After moving to this location, Student began attending Elementary School in the Unified School District, while attending this school Student experienced bullying by the students at his new school. As a result of the bullying Student was moved from Elementary School, to an independent study program called the Academy. Shortly after enrolling in Academy, Student was admitted to the Behavioral Center for a 4-day stay. Student completed the school year at Academy, and parent proceeded to get him tutoring in math and reading during the summer of 6th grade prior to attending SCHOOL. 

Parent indicated that she has concerns with Student’s reading comprehension, memory and retention. Parent also indicated that Student’s test scores are dropping. Mrs. Last Name also indicated she has concerns with Student’s behaviors during the day if he feels like he is academically inadequate he may bump his head on the wall or ball up his fists and hit himself in the head. Mrs. Last Name also indicated that she feels Student is extremely dependent upon her to complete his daily work. She indicates that she generally starts Student’s educational day with his strongest subject to create behavioral momentum, because if Student does not feel successful he will frequently shut down. 

Dr. Lisa Davidson: 
Per parent request, the School Psychologist reached out to Dr. on the following occasions 1/5/17 at 11:30am & 1/9/17 at 2:00pm. Voicemails were left for the doctor, however calls were not returned prior to the writing of this assessment report. 

Educational Background:
Grade retention:	Yes  		No   
Regular Attendance:	Yes  		No  

Cumulative File Review: 
School Year 
Remarks
2009-2010
- Information Missing from cumulative file 
2010-2011
- Information Missing from cumulative file
2011-2012
- Information Missing from cumulative file
2012-2013
- Information Missing from cumulative file
2013-2014
Student report card shows mostly proficient grades, in all subjects with Basic grades 
2014-2015
Reported “NWEA” student progress was un-interpretable to this School Psychologist
Student report card shows mostly proficient and advanced grades, in all subjects.
2015-16
Grades were mostly proficient. 
2015-2016
Student grades reflected all A’s. 

i-Ready: 
i-Ready offers an adaptive diagnostic, and both teacher-led and individualized online instruction for a complete blended learning solution. 

i-Ready Mathematics: 
Student took the i-Ready Math assessment on 8/27/16, the results of assessment indicated that he was at approximately 7th grade level in Overall Math. Student was at the approaching 7th grade level in Number and Operation. He was at the 7th grade level in Algebra and Algebraic Thinking. He was at the 7th grade level in Measurement and Data. He was at the 7th grade level in Geometry.  Please see the chart presented below for more information and exact scores. 


i-Ready Reading: 
Student took the i-Ready Reading assessment on 8/25/16, results of that assessment indicated that he was at approximately 5th grade level in Overall Reading. Student tested out of Phonological Awareness, Phonics and High-Frequency Words. He was at the 6th grade level in Vocabulary. He was at the 5th grade level in Comprehension of Literature. He was at the 5th grade level in Comprehension of Informational Text. Please see the chart presented below for more information and exact scores. 


State Standardized Testing and Reporting (STAR): 
Each spring, students in grades two through eleven take a STAR test. The STAR Program looks at how well schools and students are performing. Students take tests in math, reading, writing, science, and history. Teachers and parents can use test results to improve student learning. The STAR Program includes four tests: the State Standards Tests, the State Modified Assessment, the State Alternate Performance Assessment, and the Standards-based Tests in Spanish. 
Note: This information is taken from the State Department of Education’s website: accessed on 1.9.14 (www.cde.ca.gov/ta/tg/sr/)
Presented in the table below are the STAR results for Student:
School Year
English Language Arts
Mathematics 
2012—2nd 
Advanced 
Advanced
2013—3rd 
Proficient 
Advanced

State Assessment of Student Performance and Progress CAASPP: 
The State Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) System was established on January 1, 2014. The CAASPP System replaced the Standardized Testing and Reporting (STAR) Program, which became inoperative on July 1, 2013. The computer-based assessments are the Smarter Balanced English language arts/literacy (ELA) and mathematics tests. 
Note: This Information is taken directly from the State Assessment of Student Performance and Progress website (www.CAASPP.org). 

Presented in the table below are the CAASPP results for Student:
School Year
English Language Arts
Mathematics 
2015
Standard Nearly Met 
Standard Met

Previous Assessment(s) and Placement(s):
Prior to this assessment Student has been in General Education without supports. 

A Neuropsychological Evaluation was completed by:, PhD.. On 1/12/2016 that evaluation indicated: 
Student has Average to Above Average Intellectual abilities with his Non-Verbal abilities (SS=119) being significantly higher than his Verbal abilities (SS=99). Student was also given a Memory test which yielded an average overall memory score (SS=95), strengths were shown in Verbal Memory areas, and a deficit was noted within Visual Memory areas. Additionally, Student showed a strength in the area of Attention and Concentration. 

Mr. Last Name was given an Autism Survey in which he rated Student as Elevated. Mrs. Last Name was given the same Autism Survey in which she rated Student as Average. Mrs. Last Name also completed an Adaptive Behavior scale: results of that survey indicated impaired performance in the following areas: Economic Activity, Self Direction, Socialization, Conformity, Trustworthiness, Stereotyped/Hyperactive Behavior, and Disturbing Interpersonal Behavior. 

Several social-emotional/behavioral surveys were sent to student, who per assessment report indicated concerns in interpersonal problems, school and internalizing social stress. The principal (using teacher report form) from Student’s school at the time reported the following concerns: Significant Behavioral Problems. A teacher form the school indicated that Student struggles with getting along with peers but does well at socializing with adults. 

Student was given a depression inventory, which indicated very few feelings of depression, tiredness and positive overall self-esteem. 

Student’s mother completed a personality inventory, which indicated Elevated Impulsivity and Distractibility, Dequincy, and Social Skills Deficits. 

Presented below are the diagnosis given to Student as a result of this evaluation: 


Current Assessment  Results:
Test results accurately reflect student's skills and abilities
	  Yes		  No
Tests were administered have demonstrated validity for the purposes in which they were utilized
	  Yes		  No
The student’ primary language, racial, and ethnic background were considered prior to selection and interpretation of any evaluation procedures and/or measures. 
	  Yes		  No, Explain:  

  General Education Teacher Observation
was Student’s General Education Teacher at the time of his SST on 10/12/16; her teacher input form indicates the following: 
“Observed instructional ratings of below average in the following areas: reading skills. Ratings of average in the following areas: math skills, written expression, spelling, classroom work, homework, tests, and organizational skills. Ratings of above average in the following areas: follow oral directions, follow written directions, and interaction with teachers/staff. Observed behavioral ratings of below average in the following areas: adapting to new situations, and accepting responsibility for actions. Ratings of average in the following areas: make/keep friends as school, cooperate with others, even/happy disposition, appropriate attention/concentration, complete tasks on time, stay on task/easily redirected, and takes turns/waits for turn. Rating of above average in the following areas: cooperates/complied with teacher requests, and compliance with teacher directives. Student works well in the classroom, and I haven’t needed to make adjustments. He does really like to participate and I’ve tried to give him as many opportunities as I can. GE provided grades indicate Student to be passing all subjects at this time with the exception of F in world history.” 

Ms, is Student’s current General Education Teacher. She was contacted by this School Psychologist on 1/9/17@ 3:30pm for input. She indicated that Student currently works approximately 3-5hrs daily in the OLS. She also indicated that Student has excellent support at home with his mother as a learning coach. She indicated that Student is currently receiving all A’s with the exception of Art which he is not currently focusing on because of his prescriptive plan. 

Behavior During Examination:
Student was assessed on 2 occasions. The first was 11/23/16 the School Psychologist arrived at the family’s home at the arranged time, and Student’s mother answered the door and greeted the School Psychologist promptly. The student appeared in the hallway behind his mother. The examiner made eye contact with the student and asked “Are you Student?” the student nodded and responded that “yes” he was Student. 

The student’s mother cleared off a table and moved it into the family’s living room for the School Psychologist and the student to work at. The School Psychologist gave instructions to the parent to complete a health and developmental survey and had the student begin completing the math portion of the academic achievement testing. After a few minutes, the student got up from his seat and grabbed a pillow from the couch and asked the School Psychologist if she would like a pillow as well. He explained to the School Psychologist that these pillows were the best pillows they were so comfy he forgets they are there. The School Psychologist declined the student’s invitation to use one of the family’s pillows for comfort while testing. Student appeared to try his best on all assessments. He had appropriate eye contact and facial expressions throughout the examination period. He also showed appropriate turn taking while talking with the examiner about the portions of the test, and about side subjects as well. 

On 1/4/16 two School Psychologists assessed Student.  As the School Psychologists entered the house both Ms. Last Name and the student greeted them. Student made eye contact with both psychologists and shook their hands. The student and the parent guided the psychologists to a table and some chairs they had set up to complete the assessment. The School Psychologists sat down and began the assessment with the student.

During the second day of assessment, this examiner noted that Student showed excellent eye contact with both School Psychologists throughout the assessment. He also had good joint attention and good conversational fluency; he showed appropriate turn taking skills while speaking with both psychologists. He made a few joking comments and laughed with the examiners as they laughed with his remarks. 

Student appeared attempt to engage the School Psychologists in tasks he enjoyed. During the assessment he was able to explain various emotional states to the examiners. At one point when describing sadness as an emotion to the psychologists he began discussing his older brother. He described the sadness that he felt that his brother had moved out about 2 years ago and the sadness and anger that he now feels that his brother does not make more attempts to contact him. He cried as he explained how upset and sad he was.

Student struggled greatly with what he called "using his imagination." This psychologist noted that he did appear to struggle with the "creating a story" portion of the assessment. He also did not attempt to engage the examiners in any conversations about themselves, nor did he request any information from them during the 2nd day of assessment. 


Intellectual Development Domain:
	Standard Assessment
The assessment results to follow are derived from norm-referenced tests unless otherwise noted.  Norm-referenced tests compare an individual’s performance to that of peers the same age and/or race and indicate a ranking relative to that group.  Typical scores used are percentiles, standard scores, scaled scores and age equivalents.  A percentile is a score that indicates the rank of the student compared to others using a hypothetical group of 100 students.  A standard score indicates how far above or below the average an individual score falls using a common scale.  Standard scores also take into account the degree to which scores typically will deviate from the average score.  Two of the most common scales for standard scores use 100 as the average with a standard deviation of 15 or use 10 as the average with a standard deviation of 3.  Age equivalent scores indicate that the student has attained the same score (not skills) as an average student of the indicated age. 

Cognitive Assessment System Second Edition (CAS2)
Das-Naglieri Cognitive Assessment System (CAS) test is an individually administered test of cognitive functioning for children and adolescents ranging from 5 years 0 months through 18 years 11 months of age that was designed to assess the Planning, Attention, Simultaneous and Successive (PASS) cognitive processes scales.

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the CAS-2. They indicate that he has average cognitive processing abilities at this time. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

PASS Scale Standard Scores

SS

%ile
Planning**
**
**
Simultaneous Processing
116
86
Attention
76
5
Successive Processing
100
10



Executive Functioning without Working Memory
97
42
Executive Functioning with Working Memory
105
63
Working Memory
112
79



		
Planning
Scaled Score

Successive Processing
Scaled Score
Planned Codes 
7
Word Series
10
Planned Connections
13
Sentence Questions
10

Attention
Scaled Score

Simultaneous
Scaled Score
Expressive Attention
6
Matrices
12
Number Detection
6
Verbal-Spatial Relations
14
PLANNING SCALE:**
Student's Planning score reflects his ability to make decisions about how best to complete the tests, use strategies, monitor the effectiveness of strategies, change the plan when needed, and efficiently complete the tasks. The planned codes subtest appears to have been significantly more difficult for Student than the Planned Connections subtest. 
**Please note: There was a significant difference between the two subtest scores on this scale. The Planned Codes score of 7 (descriptively classified as Below Average) was significantly lower than the Planned Connections score of 13 (descriptively classified as Above Average). Due to the significant discrepancy between these two subtests scores Student’s overall score cannot be properly interpreted at this time thus it has been left out of this assessment report. However, there does not appear to be any concerns within the visual-motor planning area at this time. 

SIMULTANEOUS SCALE:
Student's Simultaneous score was significantly above his average PASS score and well above the Average range. This means that Student performed particularly well on tests that required working with information that is organized into groups and forms a cohesive whole. This scale required an understanding of how shapes as well as words and verbal concepts are interrelated. He earned a CAS2 Simultaneous Scale score of 116, which is within the Above Average classification and is a percentile rank of 86. The percentile rank indicates that Student did as well as or better than 86% of others his age in the standardization group. There is a 90% probability that Student's true Simultaneous score is within the range of 109 to 121. This cognitive strength has important implications for educational programming because youth who are strong in Simultaneous skills have exceptional ability to understand relationships among words and images, especially spatial tasks like orientation in space and getting the big picture. Instructional methods that involve this learning strength in Simultaneous processing should be utilized. There was no significant difference between the two subtest scores that make up the Simultaneous Scale.

ATTENTION SCALE:
Student's Attention score was significantly lower than his average PASS score and below the average range. This means that Student performed particularly poorly on tests that required focused thinking and resistance to distraction when given many stimuli to look at. Student earned a CAS2 Attention Scale score of 76, which is within the Poor classification and is a percentile rank of 5. The percentile rank indicates that Student did as well as or better than 5% of others his age in the standardization group. There is a 90% probability that Student's true Attention score is within the range of 71 to 88. This cognitive weakness has important implications for diagnosis, eligibility determination, and educational and therapeutic programming because adolescents who are weak on the Attention Scale often have problems focusing on what is important in school, at home, and on the playground. They also have difficulty working in environments containing visual and auditory distractions. There was no significant difference between the two subtest scores that make up the Attention Scale.

SUCCESSIVE SCALE:
Student's Successive score reflects his ability to repeat information, such as words or sentences, in order, and an understanding of verbal statements when the meaning was dependent on the sequence of the words. Student earned a Successive Scale score of 100, which is within the Average classification and is a percentile rank of 50. This means that Student did as well as or better than 50% of the adolescents in the standardization group. There is a 90% probability that Student's true Successive score is within the range of 92 to 108. There was no significant difference between the two subtest scores that make up the Successive Scale.

SUPPLEMENTAL CAS2 COMPOSITES
The CAS2 supports the calculation of five supplemental composite scores: Executive Function Without Working Memory, Executive Function With Working Memory, Working Memory, Verbal Content, and Nonverbal Content. Student's performance on these scales will be reviewed below.

EXECUTIVE FUNCTION:
Student's Executive Function score was within or close to the average range. This means that he performed about average on tests that required control of thinking, behavior, and attention (Planned Connections and Expressive Attention). He obtained a score of 97 on Executive Function, which measures inhibition (Planned Connections subtest) and shifting attention (Expressive Attention subtest). This score falls within the Average classification and is a percentile rank of 42. The percentile rank indicates that Student did as well as or better than 42% of others his age in the standardization group. There is a 90% probability that Student's true Executive Function score is within the range of 89 to 106.

WORKING MEMORY:
Student's Working Memory score was substantially above the average range. This means that he performed particularly well on tests that required evaluating and working with information that had to be remembered for a short period of time (Verbal-Spatial Relations and Sentence Questions). Student earned a Working Memory score of 112, which is within the Above Average classification and is a percentile rank of 79. The percentile rank indicates that Student did as well as or better than 79% of others his age in the standardization group. There is a 90% probability that Student's true Working Memory score is within the range of 104 to 118. This high score may have educational and therapeutic implications.

EXECUTIVE FUNCTION WITH WORKING MEMORY:
Student's Executive Function With Working Memory score was within or close to the average range. This means that he performed about average on tests that required control of thinking, behavior, and attention when working with information that had to be evaluated and remembered for a short period of time. He obtained a score of 105, which is within the Average classification and is a percentile rank of 63. The percentile rank indicates that Student did as well as or better than 63% of others his age in the standardization group. There is a 90% probability that Student's true score on this scale is within the range of 98 to 112.

According the students current CAS-2 scores there are no educationally relevant areas of need in the Visual Motor Planning, Simultaneous Processing, Successive Processing and Executive functioning domains at this time. 

Based on the CAS-2 The following is an educationally relevant area of need at this time: 
Attention (Identified Area #1)


Perceptual Development Domain:

Visual Perception:

Motor-Free Visual Perception Test- Fourth Edition (MVPT-4) 
The Motor-Free Visual Perceptual Test, Fourth Edition (MVPT-4) examines an individual’s visual perceptual ability without the requirement of motor involvement. Stimuli are comprised of black-and-white line drawings and designs, with answer choices presented in an easy-to- record, multiple-choice format. 

Description Visual Perceptual Abilities Assessed:
Visual discrimination - discriminates dominant features of objects, including position, shape, and form.
Spatial relationships - perceive the positions of objects in relation to oneself and other objects. including perception of pictures, figures, and patterns that are disoriented in relation to each other, such as figure reversals and rotations.
Visual memory - recognize a previously presented stimulus item after a brief interval
Figure-Ground - distinguish an object from background or surrounding objects
Visual closure - perceive a whole figure when only fragments are presented.

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the MVPT-4. They indicate that he has above average visual processing abilities. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

Below are the current results from the MVPT-4: 
 
Standard Score
Percentile Rank
Qualitative Description
MVPT-4
116
86
High Average 

Student’s overall visual perceptual skills are within the High Average range (SS=116). He demonstrates appropriate visual memory (ability to recognize visual information after it has been taken away), visual closure (the ability to perceive a whole figure when only small parts are presented), visual discrimination skills (ability to discriminate dominant features of different objects), and visual spatial relationship skills (ability to perceive objects in relation to oneself and other objects). 

Based on Student’s performance on the MVPT-4, it appears that he is demonstrating good visual processing skills at this time.  In addition, his visual processing skills are commensurate to his abilities.  

According to the student’s scores on the MVPT there are no educationally relevant areas of need in the Visual Processing domain at this time. 


Auditory Perception:
	
Test of Auditory-Perceptual Skills-Third Edition (TAPS-3) 
The purpose of the Test of Auditory-Perceptual Skills-Third Edition (TAPS-3) is to provide a secondary measure of specific auditory processes.  A descriptive listing of the specific subtests administered during this battery is listed below.  Note that not all subtests are administered to every student.

Description of Subtests from the TAPS-3
Word Discrimination: Assesses the student’s ability to discern phonological differences and similarities within word pairs.  There are 10 pairs of words that are the same and 22 pairs comprised of words that are different.  The student needs to determine which words are the same and which words are different.
Phonological Segmentation: This subtest is designed to determine how well a student can manipulate phonemes within words.  
Phonological Blending:  This subtest is designed to determine how well a student can synthesize a word given the individual phonemes.  The student is asked to listen to some sounds and then say the word that the sounds make.
Number Memory Forward: This subtest is designed to show how well the student can retain simple sequences of auditory information.  Number sequences of increasing length are read to the student, who is asked to repeat them back to the examiner.
Number Memory Reversed:  This subtest is designed to show how well the student can retain and manipulate simple sequences of auditory information.  Number sequences of increasing length are read to the student, who is to repeat them in reversed order.  
Word Memory:  This subtest shows how well the student can retain and manipulate simple sequences of auditory information.  Word sequences of increasing length are read to the student, who repeats them back to the examiner.
Sentence Memory:  This subtest is designed to show how well the student can retain details in sentences of increasing length and grammatical complexity.  Sentences of increasing length and complexity are read to the student, which the student is asked to repeat back to the examiner.
Auditory Comprehension:  This subtest is designed to show how well the student understands spoken information.  Passages of increasing length and complexity are read to the student.  The student must then answer questions pertaining to the passage they were read.
Auditory Reasoning:  The auditory cohesion skills for this subtest reflect higher-order linguistic processing, and are related to understanding jokes, riddles, inferences, and abstractions.  The items are intended to determine if the student can understand implied meanings, make inferences, or come to logical conclusions given the information in the sentences presented.  
Phonologic Index Score: Comprised of Word Discrimination, Phonological Segmentation, and Phonological Blending subtests.
Memory Index Score:  Comprised of Number Memory Forward and Reversed subtests, Word Memory, and Sentence Memory subtests.
Cohesion Index Score:  Comprised of Auditory Comprehension and Auditory Reasoning.

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the TAPS-3. They indicate that he has average auditory processing abilities at this time. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

TAPS-3 Results for Student:
Subtest
Scaled Score
Percentile 
Classification
Word Discrimination
12
75

Phonological Segmentation
14
91

Phonological Blending
9
37

Number Memory Forward
9
37

Number Memory Reversed
10
50

Word Memory
10
50

Sentence Memory
9
37

Auditory Comprehension



Auditory Reasoning 







Phonologic Index Score
109
73
Average
Memory Index Score
98
45
Average
Auditory Cohesion



Overall Score



Student’s Phonologic Index score of 109, is in the Average range. 
Student’s Memory Index score of 98, is in the Average range. 

According to the student’s scores on the TAPS there are currently no educationally relevant areas of need in the Auditory Processing domain at this time. 
	
Sensory-Motor:

The Beery-Buktenica Developmental Test of Visual-Motor Integration- Sixth Edition (VMI-6)
The Beery-Buktenica assesses a student’s visual-motor integration or eye-hand coordination abilities.  Specifically, the test requires that a student look at and copy a series of increasingly complicated shapes or designs.  The test required the student to look at and copy geometric designs of increasing difficulty. 

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the VMI-6. They indicate that he has average sensory-motor abilities. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

Beery VMI Results for Student:
VMI-6

Visual-Motor Integration
  Standard Score
105
  Percentile
6
Student achieved a standard score of 105, which is ranked at the 63rd percentile and classified as Average. This means that he is Average when compared to same age peers in tasks that require him to copy visual information figures accurately.

According to the student’s scores on the VMI-6 there are there are no educationally relevant areas of need in the Sensory-Motor Coordination domain at this time. 

***PLEASE NOTE: This information has been taken directly from the Occupational Therapy Report dated: 1/5/17. Completed by:, OTR/L Occupational Therapist*** 

Summary of Occupational Therapy report: 
Student’s standardized assessments and clinical observations for fine motor, visual motor, and gross motor skills fall within the expected range. Although the results of the standardized assessment indicate that Student exhibits delays for sensory processing, in comparison to students of the same chronological age, these delays are not impacting his ability to access school curriculum or perform in academic related tasks. Therefore, in the opinion of this therapist, Student does not require occupational therapy services at this time. 

Student’s performance in occupational therapy is not due to cultural, environmental, or economic disadvantages, limited school attendance, or second language acquisition. 

The results of this evaluation will be brought to the IEP team for consideration. The IEP Team will make the final determination on eligibility and placement after considering these and all other assessment results at the meeting. Occupational therapy services may be provided as an online service. A copy of this evaluation will be provided to the parent(s) by State   Academies. 


Attention Processing:
CAS-2 ATTENTION SCALE:
Student's Attention score was significantly lower than his average PASS score and below the average range. This means that Student performed particularly poorly on tests that required focused thinking and resistance to distraction when given many stimuli to look at. Student earned a CAS2 Attention Scale score of 76, which is within the Poor classification and is a percentile rank of 5. The percentile rank indicates that Student did as well as or better than 5% of others his age in the standardization group. There is a 90% probability that Student's true Attention score is within the range of 71 to 88. This cognitive weakness has important implications for diagnosis, eligibility determination, and educational and therapeutic programming because adolescents who are weak on the Attention Scale often have problems focusing on what is important in school, at home, and on the playground. They also have difficulty working in environments containing visual and auditory distractions. There was no significant difference between the two subtest scores that make up the Attention Scale.
Based on the CAS-2 The following is an educationally relevant area of need at this time: 
Attention (Previously Identified Area #1)


Language Development Domain:

***PLEASE NOTE: This information has been taken directly from the Speech Language Assessment Report dated: 1/5/17 the assessment was completed by:, MA, CCC-SLP Language Speech Therapist/Pathologist**** 

Summary of Speech/Language Assessment report
The results indicate that Student’s speech and language skills fall within the expected range in comparison to his age and he does not demonstrate a disability.  Therefore, in the opinion of the evaluator, Student does not require special education services at this time.

Student’s speech or language performance is not due to cultural, environmental, or economic disadvantages, limited school attendance, or second language acquisition.  

The results of this evaluation will be brought to the IEP team for consideration. The IEP Team will make the final determination on eligibility and placement after considering these and all other assessment results at the meeting.  A copy of this evaluation will be provided to the parent(s) by State Academies.


Social-Emotional Adjustment & Behavioral:

The student’s present levels of social-emotional/behavioral functioning were taken into consideration to determine if there are educationally relevant mental health needs to assist the team in determining the appropriateness of Educationally Related Mental Health Services (ERMHS).

Asperger Syndrome Diagnostic Scale ASDS: 
The Respondent: Mr. Last Name and Mrs. Last Name completed the ASDS in order to obtain an AS Quotient that indicates the likelihood that an individual has Asperger Syndrome.

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the ASDS. They indicate that she has few social-emotional behavioral concerns. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

Parent ASDS Scores for Student:

The ASDS is used to help identify characteristics of Asperger Syndrome and can assist in diagnosis.  Based on parent report Student is classified as a student who “Possibly” has Asperger Syndrome.

The Childhood Autism Rating Scale CARS-2
The CARS-2 is a behavior rating scale intended to help diagnose autism. CARS-2 was designed to help differentiate children with autism from those with other developmental delays, such as Intellectually Disabled. CARS-2 is a diagnostic assessment method that rates children on a scale from one to four for various criteria, ranging from normal to severe, and yields a composite score ranging from non-autistic to mildly autistic, moderately autistic, or severely autistic. The scale is used to observe and subjectively rate fifteen items.

Student’s Parent indicated on the Parent-Questionnaire (CARS-PQ) 
The following areas of concern for Student: 
	Severe Problems: 
Can talk with another person about that person's interests.
Makes and maintains friendships with peers of same developmental level.
Does things that might result in self injury, like scratching, pinging, picking at his or her skin.
Engages and make-believe play taking on a role (not based on scripts from TV movies or shows).
Is overly sensitive to some sounds, smells, or textures; seeks some out, and actively avoids others.

	Mild to Moderate Problems:
Response to facial expressions, gestures, and different tones of voice used by others.
Response to his or her name being called by turning and making eye contact with a person who is calling his or her name.
Carries on a conversation with another person that flows back and forth, at a level you would expect for someone of his or her age.
Sustain and interaction with others in an easy, flowing, back-and-forth manner.
Understands and responds to how another person may be thinking or feeling (for example, tries to comfort someone in distress, does something because he or she thinks the other person will like it).
May show in anxiety or worry in facial expressions or body movement, or by becoming overly impatient.
May show worry about the same thing over and over again.
Copes with changes in routine or the environment (for example, moving furniture).
Has special interest or topics (for example, dinosaurs, trains, clocks, weather, license plates).
Has an unusual response to touch; may overreact to touch or pain or may not respond to things that others would find uncomfortable or painful.

Additionally, Student’s mother made the following related comments on the CARS-2: 
“Student does not engage in topics of no interest to him, nor does he want to do so.”
“Peers are often annoyed by Student perhaps by his perseverating or lack in their interests.”
“Student will sometimes hit his head when he is upset and feeling academically inadequate.”
“No creative make believe play. Mostly imitates movies, TV shows or Video Games.” 
“Student does not like to hear balloons popping or any type of noise that is hard, pencil on paper, etc. Clothes and bed linens, other fabrics, food texture, sensitive pallet! High Pain Tolerance.” 

In response to the question: “Are there other unusual behaviors you have noticed that you would like to tell us about? Please be specific and give an example or two.” 
Mrs. Last Name wrote the following response:
“Depression, Anxiety, easily discouraged when Student does not comprehend a new topic easily, he becomes upset, will sometimes have a tantrum and can “shut down” for an indeterminate amount of time. Student suffered from PTSD from being bullied at school.” 
Mrs. Lisa Last Name was given a parent questionnaire regarding her perception of Student’s behavior in relation to High Functioning Autistic Spectrum Disorder identified individuals, this parental questionnaire was then used in conjunction with the School Psychologist’s current observations during her day of assessment of the student to determine appropriate responses for the CARS- HF Rating Scale form. The School Psychologists responses are presented below.  

The Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS 2-HF)
	Total Score: 22.5 		Category: Minimal-to-no Symptoms of Autism
Category:
Score
Descriptive Rating
Social-Emotional Understanding
2.5
Mildly Impaired to Moderately Impaired
Emotional Expression and Regulation of Emotions
2
Mildly Impaired
Relating to People
2
Mildly Impaired
Body Use
1
Age Appropriate
Object Use in Play
2
Mildly Impaired
Adaptation To Change/Restricted Interests
1
Age Appropriate
Visual Response
1
Age Appropriate
Listening Response
1
Age Appropriate
Taste, Smell, Touch Response and Use
1.5
Age Appropriate to Mildly Impaired
Fear or Anxiety
1
Age Appropriate
Verbal Communication
1
Age Appropriate
Nonverbal Communication
1
Age Appropriate
Thinking/Cognitive Integration Skills
2
Mildly Impaired
Level and Consistency of Intellectual Response
1.5
Age Appropriate to Mildly Impaired
General Impressions
2
Mildly Impaired
The school psychologist: completed the CARS-HF rating scale. According the rating scales Student is likely an individual with minimal-to-no symptoms of Autism Spectrum Disorder. For educational programming purposes, Student appears to be an individual who may not currently meet eligibility criteria as a student with Autism and its related behaviors. Student exhibited very few autism related behaviors during the examination please see summary of eligibility and/or observation section of this report for more detailed information. 

Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule-2—Administered by: Psych 2 Lopez, School Psychologist
A revision of the ADOS, the ADOS-2 is an observational assessment of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs). Like its predecessor, the ADOS-2 is a semi-structured, standardized assessment of communication, social interaction, play, and restricted and repetitive behaviors. It presents various activities that elicit behaviors directly related to a diagnosis of ASD. By observing and coding these behaviors, you can obtain information that informs diagnosis, treatment planning, and educational placement.

During the ADOS-2 administration, Student used good eye contact, and integrated his eye contact with verbal and nonverbal gestures to communicate. Student had a generally flat affect during the assessment, aside from when speaking about the emotions of sadness and anger he showed emotion by crying while describing the hurt he feels by not having as much contact as he would like with his older brother who moved out. He maintained a reciprocal conversation throughout the assessment. He appeared to have limited interest in gaining insight into relationships with other people. Student shared enjoyment with both psychologists by making sarcastic or silly comments and then laughing as the psychologists laughed as well, he also laughed at silly comments the psychologists made to him.  Student did not show interest in the School Psychologist’s feelings, thoughts or experiences.

During portions of the assessment, Student did require additional prompting.  For example, during the demonstration task activity, Student did not initially provide descriptive gestures without prompting. However, following the prompt Student was able to fluidly integrate his verbal with his nonverbal gestures, to emphasize meaning during the demonstration task. Student utilized some spontaneous and descriptive gestures, but less than would be expected for his age. He showed some pleasure during interactions and activities. For example, when he played with a novel object during the break portion of the assessment and also during the storytelling activity.  His overall interactions were typically one-sided and mildly awkward, yet not noted to be obviously odd or atypical for his age. Student’s communication, wording, and phrases used were noted to be more formal than that of most individuals his age and language level.  For example, when speaking of bullying accounts in previous school, he noted peers would have “trouble reflecting on their actions.” This maybe due to the expose he has had with individual therapy. 

Overall, results of the ADOS-2 indicate that Student does not currently meet the cut off and his comparison score is descriptively classified as “non-spectrum”. For educational programming purposes, Student appears to be an individual who may not currently meet eligibility criteria as a student with Autism and its related behaviors.

Conners’ 3 Rating Scale Parent Version (Respondent: Mrs. Last Name)	
The Conners’ 3 Rating Scales consist of a lengthy teacher, parent and self-report questionnaires.  Respondents are asked to rate children on a number of behaviors associated with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and other areas of potential concern for youth.  Responses are scored and categorized into criteria areas as listed above.

Questionnaires can be unreliable measures as rater perceptions and beliefs are extremely influential in determining response outcomes.  Questionnaires may be valuable in assisting professionals in developing diagnoses, but they do not replace thorough clinical assessment. 
	
Many factors influence attention, including the innate ability to focus and attend, the ability to screen out non-significant distractions, intellectual ability, and psychological factors such as motivation, anxiety, and depression.  Note that this assessment is limited in scope, and is unable to account for factors such as family dynamics and stressors in assessing for attentional deficits.

*The response style for this survey was not overly negative, or positive, nor was it inconsistent. Therefore, the results of this survey should be considered reliable and valid. 

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the Conner’s-2. They indicate that he has many social-emotional behavioral concerns. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

Conners’ 3- Parent Score Table (respondent: Mrs. Last Name)	


Per parent report the following are areas of concern: Inattention, Hyperactivity/Impulsivity, Learning Problems, Defiance and Aggression, and Peer Relations. 

Revised Children’s Manifest Anxiety Scale (RCMAS)
The RCMAS-2 Focuses on performance and social anxiety and is composed of 49 items that make up five scales: Physiological Anxiety, Defensiveness, Worry, Inconsistent Responding, and Social Anxiety. It is a brief, simple yes-or-no response format, an elementary reading level, and content-based item clusters help to pinpoint a child’s problems and to focus intervention.

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the RCMAS. They indicate that he has no social-emotional behavioral concerns that pertain to self-reported anxiety at this time. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

	RCMAS Score Table for Student:
Subscale
T-Score
Classification
Total Anxiety
46
Average
Physiological Anxiety
40
Low
Worry/Oversensitivity
47
Average
Social Concerns/Concentration
56
Average
Defensiveness 
49
Average
Student’s Anxiety Scale indicates that he does not suffer from anxiety related symptoms at this time. His T-scores are all within normal limits and no clinically significant scores noted. 

Kovacs’ Children’s Depression Inventory 2nd edition (CDI-2) 
The CDI-2 is a brief self-report survey that helps assess cognitive, affective and behavioral signs of depression in children and adolescents 7 to 17 years old. When used in combination with other information, results from the CDI 2 self-report can help to better understand a child and guide intervention decisions. This report provides information about the child’s score, how they compares with other children of a similar age, and which (if any) scale scores are elevated.

This report is an interpretive aid and should not be provided to parents, teachers, or children or used as the sole basis for clinical diagnosis or intervention. Administrators are cautioned against drawing unsupported interpretations. To obtain a comprehensive view of the child, information from this report should be combined with information gathered from other psychometric tests, interviews, observations, and available records. This report is based on an algorithm that produces the most common interpretations of the scores that have been obtained. Administrators should review the child’s responses to specific items to ensure that these interpretations apply.
Emotional Problems: reflects the child’s negative mood, physical symptoms, and negative self-esteem. 
Negative Mood/Physical Symptoms: reflects feeling sad, feeling like crying, worrying about “bad things,” being bothered or upset by things, and being unable to make up one’s mind.
Negative Self-Esteem: reflects low self-esteem, self-dislike, feeling of being unloved, and thoughts of suicide. 
Functional Problems: reflects issues with ineffectiveness and interpersonal problems. 
Ineffectiveness: This subscale reflects negative evaluation of one’s ability and school performance.  
Interpersonal Problems: reflects the child’s difficulty interacting with peers. The ratings also indicate feelings of loneliness and unimportance to one’s family. 
Total Score: reflects the number and overall severity of depressive symptoms. 

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the CDI-2. They indicate that he has a social-emotional/behavioral concerns in the area of interpersonal problems. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

	CDI-2 Score Table for Student:	
Cluster 
T-score 
Classification 
Emotional Problems 
50
Average Score
Negative Mood/ Symptoms
42
Average
Negative Self Esteem
61
High Average 
Functional Problems 
66
Elevated
Ineffectiveness 
54
Average 
Interpersonal Problems
84
Very Elevated
Total CDI-2 Score 
58
Average 
Student’s scores on the CDI-2 indicate that for him Student’s Scores on the CDI-2 indicate that for him overall; depression is not a concern at this time. It should be noted that Student does report a “Very Elevated” score in Interpersonal problems some of the items he responded to that indicated this are presented below: 
I do not like being with people many times. 
I feel alone many times. 
I do not have any friends. 
I get into arguments with friends many times. 

These responses indicate that Student perceives himself as struggling with interpersonal relationships. 

Based on the Conners 3 parent report, the ASDS, the CARS-2, the RCMAS and the CDI-2 The following is an educationally relevant area of need at this time: 
Social-Emotional/Behavioral (Identified Area #2)

Adaptive Skills Development Domain:

Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales:
The Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales assess personal and social sufficiency of individuals from birth to adulthood.  The Vineland does not require the direct administration of tasks to an individual, but instead requires a respondent who is familiar with the individual’s behavior to answer the questions.  It measures adaptive behavior in four domains: Communication, Daily Living Skills, Socialization, Motor Skills, and Maladaptive Behavior. (NOTE: not all subtests are given to every student).

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on Vineland. They indicate that he has some adaptive skills concerns. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

Respondent:  Mrs. Lisa Last Name, Student’s Mother (using Parent Rating Form)


Student's overall level of Adaptive Functioning is described by his score on the Adaptive Behavior Composite (ABC). His ABC score is 89, which is descriptively classified by the test publishers as in the Adequate Range. The percentile rank for this overall score is 23.  It should be noted Student has a relative strength in daily living and relative weaknesses in communication and socialization. 

Communication Domain 
The Communication domain measures how well Student exchanges information with others. His Communication standard score is 84, with a 90% confidence interval of 80 to 88. This corresponds to a percentile rank of 14. 
Student's Communication domain standard score is based on his scores on three subdomains: Receptive, Expressive, and Written. The Receptive subdomain assesses attending, understanding, and responding appropriately to information from others. Student's Expressive score reflects his use of words and sentences to express himself verbally. The Written subdomain score conveys an individual's use of reading and writing skills. 
Student's v-scale scores are 12 for Receptive, 13 for Expressive, and 13 for Written. Pairwise difference comparisons among these scores resulted in no statistically significant differences. 

Daily Living Skills Domain 
The Daily Living Skills domain assesses Student's performance of the practical, everyday tasks of living that are appropriate for his age. His standard score for Daily Living Skills is 112, with a 90% confidence interval of 108 to 116 and a percentile rank of 79. 
Student's Daily Living Skills domain standard score is derived from his scores on three subdomains: Personal, Domestic, Community. His Personal subdomain score expresses his level of self-sufficiency in such areas as eating, dressing, washing, hygiene, and health care. His Domestic score reflects the extent to which Student performs household tasks such as cleaning up after himself, chores, and food preparation. The Community subdomain measures an individual's functioning in the world outside the home, including safety, using money, travel, and rights and responsibilities. 
Student received v-scale scores of 20 for Personal, 13 for Domestic, and 18 for Community. Pairwise difference comparisons among these scores show that the Personal score is significantly higher than the Domestic score, the Personal score is significantly higher than the Community score, and the Domestic score is significantly lower than the Community score. 

Socialization Domain 
Student's score for the Socialization domain reflects his functioning in social situations. His Socialization standard score is 81, with a 90% confidence interval of 77 to 85. The percentile rank is 10. 
Student's Socialization domain standard score is based on his scores on three subdomains: Interpersonal Relationships, Play and Leisure, and Coping Skills. Interpersonal Relationships assesses how an individual responds and relates to others, including friendships, caring, social appropriateness, and conversation. Student's Play and Leisure score reflects how he engages in play and fun activities with others. His Coping Skills score conveys how well he demonstrates behavioral and emotional control in different situations involving others. 
Student's v-scale scores are 12 for Interpersonal Relationships, 12 for Play and Leisure, and 10 for Coping Skills. Pairwise difference comparisons among these scores show that the Interpersonal Relationships score is significantly higher than the Coping Skills score and that the Play and Leisure score is significantly higher than the Coping Skills score. 

Based on the current scores on the Vineland-3 the following are educationally relevant areas of need at this time: 
Adaptive Skills (Identified Area #3)


Academic/Pre-Academic Achievement Domain:

Woodcock- Johnson IV Achievement Tests (WJ-IV Ach)
The WJ-IV Ach is a wide range, comprehensive set of individually administered tests for measuring scholastic aptitudes and educational achievement. This cluster of basic reading skills includes sight-words and phonic/structural analysis, with literal reading comprehension.  Mathematics includes problem solving related to measurement, time, monetary processing and a variety of basic numerical operations and complex calculations. These subtests measure the ability to spell, use punctuation, capitalization, and provide the correct linguistic forms of words. 

Presented in the chart below are Student’s scores on the WJ-IV. They indicate that he has no academic concerns. Please see chart and summary below for exact scores.  

Table of Scores Woodcock-Johnson IV Tests of Achievement (Form A) Norms based on age:
Cluster/Test
Standard Score 
Percentile 
Classification

Reading:
Letter-Word ID & Passage Comprehension
110
74
Average
Broad Reading: 
Letter-Word ID, Passage Comprehension & Reading Fluency 
105
64
Average
Basic Reading Skills:
Letter-Word ID & Word Attack
131
98
Very Superior 
Reading Fluency:
Oral Reading & Sentence Reading Fluency
105
62
High Average
Mathematics:
Applied Problems & Calculation
119
90
High Average
Broad Mathematics: 
Applied Problems, Calculation & Math Facts Fluency
115
84
Average
Math Calculation Skills:
Calculation & Math Facts Fluency
110
75
Average
Written Language: 
Spelling & Writing Samples
107
69
Average
Academic Skills: 
Letter-Word ID, Spelling & Calculation
115
84
High Average
Academic Applications: 
Applied Problems, Passage Comprehension & Writing Samples
111
77
High Average
Brief Achievement: 
Letter-Word ID, Applied Problems & Spelling
118
89
High Average
SUBTEST



Letter-Word Identification: naming letters and reading words aloud from a list
118
88
High Average
Applied Problems: "story" or "word" problems with scratch paper
122
93
Superior 
Spelling: written spelling of dictated words
107
68
Average
Passage Comprehension: supplying missing words in sentences
97
43
Average
Calculation: calculation with paper and pencil
114
83
High Average
Writing Samples: writing sentences according to specific directions
105
62
Average
Word Attack: accuracy in reading nonsense words aloud from a list
144
99.8
Very Superior 
Oral Reading: accuracy of reading stories aloud
113
82
High Average
Sentence Reading Fluency: speed of silent reading, marking yes/no
99
49
Average
Math Facts Fluency: speed of performing simple calculations
104
62
Average
Reading: 
Student was able to read the following words independently: scepter, municipality, minuend, rhetoric, milieu, and coiffure. He was not able to read these words: breathes, silhouette, idiosyncrasy, aggrandizement, tertiary, or septuagenarian. On the Letter-Word Identification subtest he identified words rapidly and accurately with little effort, which shows automatic word identification skills. On the Passage Comprehension subtest he appeared to read initial passages easily but appeared to struggle as the reading increased in difficulty, which is typical. On the Word Attack subtest he identified non-words rapidly and accurately with little effort, which shows advanced phonic skills. On the Oral Reading subtest he made errors involving mispronunciation (5-errors), omission (1-error) and insertion (1-error) were observed. On the Sentence Reading Fluency subtest he appeared to read sentences rapidly. Student shows some intra-profile weaknesses in reading comprehension and sentence reading fluency, however they are still well within normal limits, and do not appear to be impacting him academically at this time. There are no areas of concern for Student in the area of reading at this time. 

Writing: 
Student was able to spell the following words: league, skiing, gymnasium, enthusiastic, cocoa, and negotiate. He was not able to spell these words: calendar (calender), leisure (no response), cyst (cist), tentacle (tentecle) or exaggerate (exagerate). On the Spelling subtest spelled words easily and accurately. On the Writing Samples subtest his sentences were simple but adequate which is typical. There are no areas of concern for Student in the area of writing at this time. 

Mathematics: 
Student was able to solve multistep equations such as 3+6(8)=51. He was able to solve simple algebraic equations with one variable such as 3x+4=16; x=4. He was able to reduce large fractions such as 14/28= 1/2. He was able to complete long division problems such as 5201÷102= 51 and division problems with decimals such as $26.50÷5= $5.30. On the Applied Problems subtest solved problems with no observed difficulties, which shows good comprehension and analytical abilities. On the Calculation subtest he solved problems quickly with no observed difficulties fluent and automatic. On the Math Facts Fluency subtest he solved problems quickly. There are no areas of concern for Student in the area of math at this time. 

According to the WJ-IV Achievement Test, scores presented here there are no educationally relevant areas of need in the achievement domain at this time. 

On-line School Progress: 
Each of the percentages given below indicates the student’s current grade in each class. Please note this information is valid as of 12/20/16 @ 3:20pm. 
Grade Guide
100%-90% = A
89%-80% = B
79%-70% = C
69%=60 = D
59% or below = F
Student’s Current Courses & Grades
Intermediate World Art II 		44.41%**
Grade 7 Language Arts   		91.16%
World History II			97.45%
Math 7 ST			95.21%
Physical Education 7		100%
Life Science			90.8%
**Please note: The student has currently been exempted from Art, to focus on core classes at this time. 

Exclusionary factors are ruled out if checked “No”: 
Yes       No    Visual Impairment: Vision Screening 
Yes       No    Hearing Impairment: Hearing Screening 
Yes       No    Orthopedic Impairment
Yes       No    Intellectually Disabled
Yes       No    Emotional Disturbance
Yes       No    Cultural Factors and Limited English Proficiency
Yes       No    Environmental or economic disadvantage

SUMMARY and CONCLUSIONS:
This student demonstrates an educationally disabling condition in the following area(s):
			
  Intellectually Disabled
  Specific Learning Disability
  Speech and Language Impairment
  Emotional Disturbance 
  Orthopedic Impairment
  Other Health Impairment 
  Autism 
  Traumatic Brain Injury
  Visual Impairment
  Hard of Hearing
  Multiple Disabilities

			  Other; Explain:  
	This student does not demonstrate an educationally disabling condition.

Summary:
Student has average to high average estimated cognitive abilities. He has high average-to-average visual and auditory processing skills. His sensory-motor skills are also average. CAS-2 Planning and Attention scores appears to indicate the student has poor attention processing skills; this has been identified as an area of need for Student at this time. 

Student’s mother was given a survey to look at Student’s Autism and it’s related behaviors Student’s mother reported a few Autism (high-functioning previously identified as Asperger’s) behavior related concerns. The School Psychologist completed an Autism rating scale as well and it showed minimal-to-no symptoms of Autism. Additionally, an ADOS-2 was administered to Student and he did not meet the Autism Spectrum cut off. Although Student has some characteristics and concerns that may be attributed to his diagnosis they do not appear to be currently impeding his ability to progress educationally. At this time it appears that Student may not meet special education eligibility criteria as a student with Autism (AUT). Student’s mother also completed an adaptive skills survey, which indicated some adaptive skill concerns for Student. This is an identified area of need for him at this time.  

Student has average to above average achievement scores, and there are no concerns with his reading, writing or math skills at this time. Moreover, per current general education teacher report the student is receiving 90% or above in all of his online school classes with the exception of Art, which he has been exempted from and he is currently completing his schoolwork in approximately 3-5hrs daily. Per Student’s cumulative file review he has been academically successful year after year, with proficient to advanced state testing scores and adequate grades. Student has been promoted each year to the next grade level and cumulative files indicated no areas of concern in previous school years. 

Currently Student does not appear to meet special education eligibility criteria as a student with a Specific Learning Disability (SLD) as there is not a significant discrepancy between his expected ability and achievement. Moreover, he is currently making more than adequate progress in the online school. 

Student’s diagnosis of AD/HD does not appear to be impacting his strength, vitality or alertness nor does it appear to be causing him heighted alertness at this time. Student may not meet special education eligibility criteria as a student with Other Health Impairment (OHI)—due to AD/HD at this time. 

Based on the current assessment results Student may not currently appear to meet special education eligibility criteria as a student with an Emotional Disturbance (ED) at this time (please see the rationale section below for more details).  Student’s social-emotional concerns do not appear to be impacting him to the level that he may need Specialized Academic Intervention (SAI) classes in the areas of reading, writing or math at this time. However, Student would likely benefit from the following accommodations to the General Education setting: a visual schedule, a behavior reinforcement system (such as a token economy to earn access to renforcers such as video games), assignment chunking, frequent checks from G.E. Teacher and Learning Coach, prescriptive plan, and access to a computer program that reads text to the student. These accommodations can be made within the general educational setting for Student if needed. 

The IEP team should consider the results of this assessment in determining the most-appropriate, least-restrictive settings and services to meet Student’s educational needs while also considering all possible harmful effects of removal from the general education environment. The IEP team will determine final eligibility for Student at this time. Additionally, if the IEP team determines the child does not qualify for special education services at this time, the team may want to consider referring Student to the 504 team for a possible 504 plan evaluation.

Multiple measures and a multidisciplinary team were utilized in determining special education eligibility, needs, services, and placement. 

Based on the current assessment the following are educationally relevant areas of need at this time for this student: 
Attention (Previously Identified Area #1)
Social-Emotional/Behavioral (Identified Area #2)
Adaptive Skills (Identified Area #3)

Rationale:

SPECIFIC LEARNING DISABILITY: Specific learning disability means a disorder in one or more of the basic psychological processes involved in understanding or in using language, spoken or written, that may have manifested itself in the imperfect ability to listen, think, speak, read, write, spell, or do mathematical calculations, including conditions such as perceptual disabilities, brain injury, minimal brain dysfunction, dyslexia, and developmental aphasia. The basic psychological processes include attention, visual processing, auditory processing, sensory-motor skills, cognitive abilities including association, conceptualization and expression. Specific learning disabilities do not include learning problems that are primarily the result of visual, hearing, or motor disabilities, of intellectual disability, of emotional disturbance, or of environmental, cultural, or economic disadvantage.

  Utilizing Severe Discrepancy Model 	  Utilizing Response to Intervention Model	
A severe discrepancy between cognitive ability and academic achievement is noted in the following areas:
 Yes		 No                       
 Oral Expression		 Reading Comprehension	 Listening Comprehension
  Arithmetic Computations	 Reading Fluency		 Decoding/Basic Reading Skills
 Math Reasoning		 Written Expression		
Evidence of a significant basic psychological processing deficit is demonstrated in:
 Yes		 No
 Attention/Concentration		 Association			 Conceptualization
  Expression				 Auditory Perception		 Visual Perception
 Sensory-Motor Integration		 Phonological Processing

 A severe discrepancy is not evident based on test data. Utilizing the Response to Intervention Model, the pupil is determined to have a specific learning disability by the assessment team based on:
 Yes		 No	The pupil does not achieve adequately for the pupil’s age or to meet State-approved grade-level standards when provided with learning experiences and instruction appropriate for the pupil's age or State-approved grade-level standards. 
Comments: Student is currently achieving adequately for his age/grade.
 Yes		 No 	When using a process based on the pupil's response to scientific, research-based intervention, the pupil does not make sufficient progress. 
Comments: Student is currently making sufficient progress in the OLS. Moreover, it appears he is currently able to achieve excellent grades within a typical 3-5hr school day. 

 Yes		 No 	The pupil exhibits a pattern of strengths and weaknesses in performance, achievement, or both, relative to age, indicating the presence of a learning disability rather than a lack of appropriate instruction in reading or math.
Comments: Student’s personal patterns of strengths and weaknesses in performance and achievement are not consistent with him being an individual with a learning disability. 

Additionally, the assessment team has determined that the identified specific learning disability is not primarily the result of:
 Yes		 No 		Visual impairments or difficulties
 Yes		 No		Hearing impairments or difficulties 
 Yes		 No 		Motor disabilities
 Yes		 No 		Intellectual disability
 Yes		 No 		Emotional disturbance
 Yes		 No 		Environmental factors (e.g. attendance, transience, lack of access to 
				appropriate educational opportunities)
 Yes		 No 		Cultural or economic disadvantages (e.g. language proficiency, 
educational values)   

EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCE: 
Emotional disturbance means a condition exhibiting one or more of the following characteristics over a long period of time and to a marked degree that adversely affects a child’s educational performance: (A) An inability to learn that cannot be explained by intellectual, sensory, or health factors. (B) An inability to build or maintain satisfactory interpersonal relationships with peers and teachers. (C) Inappropriate types of behavior or feelings under normal circumstances. (D) A general pervasive mood of unhappiness or depression. (E) A tendency to develop physical symptoms or fears associated with personal or school problems. (F) Emotional disturbance includes schizophrenia. The term does not apply to children who are socially maladjusted, unless it is determined that they have an emotional disturbance under subdivision (b)(4) of this section.
The assessment team identified the following characteristic(s) of Emotional Disturbance as significant factors impacting this student:
 Yes   No Inability to learn which cannot be explained by intellectual, sensory or health factors.
Comments: Not observed or reported during this assessment. 
 Yes   No Inability to build or maintain satisfactory interpersonal relationships with peers and adults.
Comments: Student self-reported difficulties in building or maintaining interpersonal relationships with peers on the CDI however, within his current educational placement this does not appear to be impacting him academically at this time.  
 Yes   No Inappropriate types of behavior or feelings under normal circumstances.
Comments: Not observed or reported during this assessment.
 Yes   No General pervasive mood of unhappiness or depression.
 Comments: Not observed or reported during this assessment.  
 Yes   No Tendency to develop physical symptoms or fears associated with personal or school problems.
Comments: Not observed or reported during this assessment.
Additionally, the assessment team has determined that the following:
 Yes   No Exhibits one or more of the above characteristics over a long period of time
 Yes   No Exhibits one of or more of the above characteristics to a marked degree in all settings.
 Yes   No Characteristics are adversely affecting educational performance.
 Yes   No Socially maladjustment is not the primary factor for the student’s educational, behavioral, and social 
	            difficulties

AUTISM (AUT):
Autism means a developmental disability significantly affecting verbal and nonverbal communication and social interaction, generally evident before age three, and adversely affecting a child’s educational performance. Other characteristics often associated with autism are engagement in repetitive activities and stereotyped movements, resistance to environmental change or change in daily routines, and unusual responses to sensory experiences. (A) Autism does not apply if a child’s educational performance is adversely affected primarily because the child has an emotional disturbance, as defined in subdivision (b)(4) of this section. (B) A child who manifests the characteristics of autism after age three could be identified as having autism if the criteria in subdivision (b) (1) of this section are satisfied.
The assessment team identified the following characteristics of Autism as significant factor(s) impacting this student:
 Yes   No Difficulties in verbal and nonverbal communication
Comments: Per parent report Student does have some degree of impaired communication, however based on the current assessment it does not appear to be impacting him academically at this time. Moreover, a full speech language assessment was conducted as a part of this assessment and found no educationally relevant difficulties within this area at this time. 
 Yes   No Difficulties in social interaction 
Comments: Per parent report and Student’s self-report impaired social interaction is a concern for Student at this time however, within his current educational placement this does not appear to be impacting him academically at this time.  
 Yes   No Unusual responses to sensory experiences
Comments: Per parent report Student does not like loud noises, and he reportedly has some usual sensory responses, these were not observed during the testing secession and do not appear to be impacting him academically at this time. 
 Yes   No Engaging in repetitive activities
Comments: Student does appear to engage in repetitive activities any more than a typical peer of his age. 
 Yes   No Exhibiting stereotypical movements
Comments: Student does not have stereotypical movements associated with Autism. 
 Yes   No Demonstrating resistance to environmental change or change in daily routines
Comments: Student does not have a resistance to environmental change or change in daily routines. 

OTHER HEALTH IMPAIRED (OHI):
A child is classified as OHI who has limited strength, vitality or alertness, including heightened alertness to environmental stimuli, that results in limited alertness with respect to the educational environment that: (A) Is due to chronic or acute health problems such as asthma, attention deficit disorder or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, diabetes, epilepsy, a heart condition, hemophilia, lead poisoning, leukemia, nephritis, rheumatic fever, sickle cell anemia, and Tourette syndrome; and (B) Adversely affects a child’s educational performance.

The assessment team identified the following areas factors impacting this student:
 Yes   No Limited Strength
Comments: Student does not have Impaired Strength. 
 Yes   No Limited Vitality 
Comments: Student does not have Impaired Vitality. 
 Yes   No Limited Alertness
Comments: Student does not have Alertness.
 Yes   No Heightened Alertness
Comments: Student does not have Heightened Alertness. 

Programs and Services Recommended:
	The IEP Team should consider participation in the general education program as the least restrictive, most appropriate educational alternative based upon assessment findings and State of State Education code guidelines
	IEP Team should consider providing specialized academic instruction in areas of need as the least restrictive, most appropriate educational alternative based upon assessment findings and State of State Education code guidelines
  IEP Team should consider the appropriateness of an independent-study program and further consider a change of placement, such as a special day class setting, as the most appropriate educational alternative based upon assessment findings and State of State Education code guidelines.

Recommendations:   After thorough consideration of the general education curriculum, State   
Academy’s requirements, and the student’s specific strengths, weaknesses, and needs, the following 
recommendations are deemed appropriate by the assessment team and should allow for the student to access the 
general education curriculum, make adequate progress and receive educational benefit.

**The Following recommendations are examples only. Each student will have a different set of needs due 
to their unique profile. Thus, the recommendations should be individualized:
Attention (Previously Identified Area #1)
1. Interact frequently with the student in order to maintain involvement in the activity.  
2. Provide the student with a timer to be used to increase the amount of time during which he/she maintains attention.
3. Reinforce small quantities of completed work at first and gradually increase the amount of work the student needs to complete to earn the reinforcer.

Social-Emotional/Behavioral (Identified Area #2)
1. Before starting any activity, remind the students of the critical behaviors needed for participating in the activity. Make eye contact with the student.
2. As often as possible, provide a special motivation for the student to [any target positive behavior such as completing assignments, coming to class on time, achieving 75% correct out of items completed.] The motivator may be any activity or privilege that the student truly enjoys (e.g., 10 minutes use of the computer, errand for teacher, reduction in a homework assignment, note home to the parent).
3. Before activities in which the student typically has behavioral difficulties, meet with him privately and review the rules for that particular activity (e.g., recess, school bus, field trip). Then have the student restate the rules. Interact frequently with the student in order to maintain involvement in the activity.

Adaptive Skills (Identified Area #3)
1. Teach the student to slow down, and make eye contact with the person they are speaking to when speaking.  
2. The Student may want to try taking several deep breaths before speaking when they are feeling frustrated. 
rniaifo



